.\"
.Dd August 09, 2022
.Dt spf 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm spf
.Nd report on the given domain's use of SPF
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl Vbhjv
.Op Fl p Ar policy
.Op Fl f Ar format
.Op Fl r Ar address
.Ar domain
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
tool allows you to inspect the Sender Policy Framework
DNS records for the given domain.
.Sh OPTIONS
The following options are supported by
.Nm :
.Bl -tag -width r_address_
.It Fl V
Print version information and exit.
.It Fl f Ar format
Output format (json, perl, text).
.It Fl h
Display help and exit.
.It Fl p Ar policy
Expand and report on the given policy.
Note:
.Ar policy
needs to be quoted; see EXAMPLES.
.It Fl r Ar address
Explicitly query this resolver.
.It Fl v
Be verbose.
Can be specified multiple times.
.El
.Sh DETAILS
The Sender Policy Framework (SPF) defined in RFC7208
specifies the format for the SPF DNS entries a domain
may choose to apply.
These entries can range from the straight forward to
the complex, harboring certain surprises or
unintenionally obscuring important information, such
as when one domain includes the SPF records of another
domain.
.Pp
.Nm
can be used to report on the comprehensive ruleset
derived from the DNS record.
It does that by counting CIDRs, resolving e.g., MX
records, and recursively looking up SPF records of any
included domains.
.Sh EXAMPLES
The following examples illustrate common usage of this tool.
.Pp
To report on the SPF records for the domain
netmeister.org:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
spf netmeister.org
.Ed
.Pp
To query Quad9's public resolver for the same SPF
records and report the results in json format:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
spf -r 2620:fe::fe -j netmeister.org
.Ed
.Pp
To expand an arbitrary policy from the command-line:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
spf -p "v=spf1 a:example.com include:example.net -all"
.Ed
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std 
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr dig 1
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm
was originally written by
.An Jan Schaumann
.Aq jschauma@netmeister.org
in July 2022.
.Sh BUGS
Please file bugs and feature requests by emailing the author.
